README.md, before:

# mongo-express

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/mongo-express.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mongo-express) [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/mongo-express.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mongo-express) [![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/mongo-express/mongo-express.svg)](https://github.com/mongo-express/mongo-express/stargazers) [![Known Vulnerabilities](https://snyk.io/test/npm/name/badge.svg)](https://snyk.io/test/npm/mongo-express)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/mongo-express/mongo-express/actions/workflows/standard-ci.yml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/mongo-express/mongo-express/actions/workflows/standard-ci.yml)

Web-based MongoDB admin interface written with Node.js, Express and Bootstrap3

## Features

- Connect to multiple databases
- View/add/delete databases
- View/add/rename/delete collections
- View/add/update/delete documents
- Preview audio/video/image assets inline in collection view
- Nested and/or large objects are collapsible for easy overview
- Async on-demand loading of big document properties (>100KB default) to keep collection view fast
- GridFS support - add/get/delete incredibly large files
- Use BSON data types in documents
- Mobile / Responsive - Bootstrap 3 works passably on small screens when you're in a bind
- Connect and authenticate to individual databases
- Authenticate as admin to view all databases
- Database blacklist/whitelist
- Custom CA and CA validation disabling
- Supports replica sets

## Screenshots

| Home Page                                                                      | Database View                                                                                    | Collection View                                                                       | Editing A Document                                                     |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <img src="http://i.imgur.com/XiYhblA.png" title="Home Page showing databases"> | <img src="http://i.imgur.com/XWcIgY1.png" title="Viewing collections & buckets in a database" /> | <img src="https://imgur.com/UmGSr3x.png" title="Viewing documents in a collection" /> | <img src="https://imgur.com/lL38abn.png" title="Editing a document" /> |

These screenshots are from version 0.30.40
View album for more screenshots: (server status, database views etc..)
[https://imgur.com/a/9vHsF](https://imgur.com/a/9vHsF)

## Development

For test or develop with the latest version you can install using this git repository:

    npm i mongo-express@git+https://github.com/mongo-express/mongo-express.git#master

Copy config.default.js to config.js and edit the default property to fit your local environment

**Run the development build using:**

    npm run start-dev

## Usage (npm / CLI)

_mongo-express_ requires Node.js v4 or higher.

**To install:**

    npm install -g mongo-express

Or if you want to install a non-global copy:

    npm install mongo-express

By default `config.default.js` is used where the basic access authentication is `admin`:`pass`. This is obviously not safe, and there are warnings in the console.

**To configure:**

Copy `YOUR_PATH/node_modules/mongo-express/config.default.js` into a new file called `YOUR_PATH/node_modules/mongo-express/config.js`.

_Note:_ YOUR_PATH will depend on your current OS user and system configuration. You can see it in the output text shown after executing npm install.

Fill in your MongoDB connection details and any other options you want to change in `config.js`.

**You will also need to create a .env file with the variables for your cookie and session secrets, these are just default values**

    ME_CONFIG_SITE_COOKIESECRET: 'cookiesecret',
    ME_CONFIG_SITE_SESSIONSECRET: 'sessionsecret',

**To run:**

    cd YOUR_PATH/node_modules/mongo-express/ && node app.js

If you installed it globally, you can immediately start mongo-express like this:

    mongo-express --url mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017

Or if you want to use it as an administrator:

    mongo-express --admin --url mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017

For help on configuration options:

    mongo-express --help

## Usage (Express 4 middleware)

**To mount as Express 4 middleware (see `node_modules/mongo-express/app.js`):**

    var mongo_express = require('mongo-express/lib/middleware')
    var mongo_express_config = require('./mongo_express_config')

    app.use('/mongo_express', mongo_express(mongo_express_config))

## Usage (Docker)

Make sure you have a running [MongoDB container](https://hub.docker.com/_/mongo/) on a Docker network (`--network some-network` below) with `--name` or `--network-alias` set to `mongo`. Alternatively, set connection string `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_URL` to the proper connection for your MongoDB container on your Docker network.

**Use [the Docker Hub image](https://hub.docker.com/_/mongo-express/):**

```console
$ docker run -it --rm -p 8081:8081 --network some-network mongo-express
```

**Build from source:**

Build an image from the project directory, then run the image.

```console
$ docker build -t mongo-express .
$ docker run -it --rm -p 8081:8081 --network some-network mongo-express
```

You can use the following [environment variables](https://docs.docker.com/reference/run/#env-environment-variables) to modify the container's configuration:

    Name                              | Default         | Description
    ----------------------------------|-----------------|------------
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_URL`           | `mongodb://admin:pass@localhost:27017/db?ssl=false`
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ENABLE_ADMIN`  | `false`         | Enable administrator access. Send strings: `"true"` or `"false"`.
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_AUTH_DATABASE` | `db`            | Database name (only needed if `ENABLE_ADMIN` is `"false"`).
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_AUTH_USERNAME` | `admin`         | Database username (only needed if `ENABLE_ADMIN` is `"false"`).
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_AUTH_PASSWORD` | `pass`          | Database password (only needed if `ENABLE_ADMIN` is `"false"`).
    `ME_CONFIG_SITE_BASEURL`          | `/`             | Set the express baseUrl to ease mounting at a subdirectory. Remember to include a leading and trailing slash.
    `ME_CONFIG_HEALTH_CHECK_PATH`     | `/status`       | Set the mongo express healthcheck path. Remember to add the forward slash at the start.
    `ME_CONFIG_SITE_COOKIESECRET`     | `cookiesecret`  | String used by [cookie-parser middleware](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cookie-parser) to sign cookies.
    `ME_CONFIG_SITE_SESSIONSECRET`    | `sessionsecret` | String used to sign the session ID cookie by [express-session middleware](https://www.npmjs.com/package/express-session).
    `ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH`             | `false`         | Enable Basic Authentication. Send strings: `"true"` or `"false"`.
    `ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_USERNAME`    | ``              | mongo-express web login name. Sending an empty string will disable basic authentication.
    `ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_PASSWORD`    | ``              | mongo-express web login password.
    `ME_CONFIG_REQUEST_SIZE`          | `100kb`         | Used to configure maximum mongo update payload size. CRUD operations above this size will fail due to restrictions in [body-parser](https://www.npmjs.com/package/body-parser).
    `ME_CONFIG_OPTIONS_EDITORTHEME`   | `rubyblue`      | Web editor color theme, [more here](http://codemirror.net/demo/theme.html).
    `ME_CONFIG_OPTIONS_READONLY`      | `false`         | if readOnly is true, components of writing are not visible.
    `ME_CONFIG_OPTIONS_FULLWIDTH_LAYOUT`    | `false`   | if set to true an alternative page layout is used utilizing full window width.
    `ME_CONFIG_OPTIONS_PERSIST_EDIT_MODE`   | `false`   | if set to true, remain on same page after clicked on Save button
    `ME_CONFIG_OPTIONS_NO_DELETE`      | `false`        | if noDelete is true, components of deleting are not visible.
    `ME_CONFIG_SITE_SSL_ENABLED`      | `false`         | Enable SSL.
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_SSLVALIDATE`   | `true`          | Validate mongod server certificate against CA
    `ME_CONFIG_SITE_SSL_CRT_PATH`     | ` `             | SSL certificate file.
    `ME_CONFIG_SITE_SSL_KEY_PATH`     | ` `             | SSL key file.
    `ME_CONFIG_SITE_GRIDFS_ENABLED`   | `false`         | Enable gridFS to manage uploaded files.
    `VCAP_APP_HOST`                   | `localhost`     | address that mongo-express will listen on for incoming connections.
    `PORT`                            | `8081`          | port that mongo-express will run on.
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_CA_FILE`       | ``              | CA certificate File
    `ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_USERNAME_FILE`     | ``        | File version of ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_USERNAME
    `ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_PASSWORD_FILE`     | ``        | File version of ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_PASSWORD
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ADMINUSERNAME_FILE`  | ``        | File version of ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ADMINUSERNAME
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ADMINPASSWORD_FILE`  | ``        | File version of ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ADMINPASSWORD
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_AUTH_USERNAME_FILE`  | ``        | File version of ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_AUTH_USERNAME
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_AUTH_PASSWORD_FILE`  | ``        | File version of ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_AUTH_PASSWORD

**Example:**

    docker run -it --rm \
        --name mongo-express \
        --network web_default \
        -p 8081:8081 \
        -e ME_CONFIG_OPTIONS_EDITORTHEME="ambiance" \
        -e ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_USERNAME="" \
        -e ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_URL="mongodb://mongo:27017" \
        mongo-express

This example links to a container name typical of `docker-compose`, changes the editor's color theme, and disables basic authentication.

**To use:**

The default port exposed from the container is 8081, so visit `http://localhost:8081` or whatever URL/port you entered into your config (if running standalone) or whatever `config.site.baseUrl` (if mounting as a middleware).

## Usage (Bluemix)

**Deploy to Bluemix**

Doing manually:

- Git clone this repository
- Create a new or use already created [MongoDB experimental service](https://www.ng.bluemix.net/docs/#services/MongoDB/index.html#MongoDB)
- Change the file `manifest.yml` to fit your Bluemix app and service environment

Doing automatically:

- Click the button below to fork into IBM DevOps Services and deploy your own copy of this application on Bluemix

[![Deploy to Bluemix](https://bluemix.net/deploy/button.png)](https://bluemix.net/deploy?repository=https://github.com/mongo-express/mongo-express.git)

Then, take the following action to customize to your environment:

- Create your `config.js` file based on `config.default.js`
  - Check if it is necessary to change the `dbLabel` according to the MongoDB service created
  - Change the `basicAuth` properties, not to keep the default values

## Search

- _Simple_ search takes the user provided fields (`key` & `value`) and prepares a MongoDB find() object, with projection set to `{}` so returns all columns.
- _Advanced_ search passes the `find` and `projection` fields/objects straight into MongoDB `db.collection.find(query, projection)`. The `find` object is where your query happens, while the `projection` object determines which columns are returned.

See [MongoDB db.collection.find()](https://docs.mongodb.org/manual/reference/method/db.collection.find/) documentation for examples and exact usage.

## Planned features

Pull Requests are always welcome! <3

## Limitations

- Documents must have `document._id` property to be edited
- Binary BSON data type not tested

## Not tested

- Binary/BinData

JSON documents are parsed through a javascript virtual machine, so **the web
interface can be used for executing malicious javascript on a server**.

**mongo-express should only be used privately for development purposes**.

## BSON Data Types

The following BSON data types are supported in the mongo-express document editor/viewer.

**Native Javascript Types**

Strings, numbers, lists, booleans, null, etc.

All numbers in Javascript are 64-bit floating points.

**ObjectID/ObjectId**

    ObjectId()

Creates a new Object ID type.

    ObjectId(id)

Use Object ID with the given 24-digit hexadecimal string.

**ISODate**

    ISODate()

Creates a new ISODate object with current time.

`new Date()` can also be used (note the `new` keyword there).

    ISODate(timestamp)

Uses ISODate object with the given timestamp.

**DBRef/Dbref**

    DBRef(collection, objectID)

    DBRef(collection, objectID, database)

Object ID is the ID string, not the ObjectId type.

The database value is optional.

**Timestamp**

    Timestamp()

Creates a new Timestamp object with a value of 0.

    Timestamp(time, ordinal)

Example: `Timestamp(ISODate(), 0)`.

See [http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/Timestamp+data+type](http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/Timestamp+data+type) for more info about the Timestamp data type.

**Code**

    Code(code)

Code can be a native Javascript function, or it can be a string.

Specifying a scope/context is not supported.

**MinKey**

    MinKey()

**MaxKey**

    MaxKey()

**Symbol**

    Symbol(string)

## Example Document

Here is an example of a document which can be read/edited in mongo-express (media truncated for legibility):

    {
      "_id": ObjectId(),
      "dates": {
        "date": ISODate("2012-05-14T16:20:09.314Z"),
        "new_date": ISODate(),
        "alternative": new Date()
      },
      "photo": "data:image/jpeg;base64,/9j/4...",
      "video": "data:video/webm;base64,GkXfo...",
      "audio": "data:audio/ogg;base64,T2dnUw...",
      "bool": true,
      "string": "hello world!",
      "list of numbers": [
        123,
        111e+87,
        4.4,
        -12345.765
      ],
      "reference": DBRef("collection", "4fb1299686a989240b000001"),
      "ts": Timestamp(ISODate(), 1),
      "minkey": MinKey(),
      "maxkey": MaxKey(),
      "func": Code(function() { alert('Hello World!') }),
      "symbol": Symbol("test")
    }

---

## License

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2012 Chun-hao Hu
Copyright (c) 2016-present Multiple Contributors

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

added cypress and initial test, still working on code coverage and comprehensive testing, but we have a framework now

README.md, after:

# mongo-express

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/mongo-express.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mongo-express) [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/mongo-express.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mongo-express) [![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/mongo-express/mongo-express.svg)](https://github.com/mongo-express/mongo-express/stargazers) [![Known Vulnerabilities](https://snyk.io/test/npm/name/badge.svg)](https://snyk.io/test/npm/mongo-express)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/mongo-express/mongo-express/actions/workflows/standard-ci.yml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/mongo-express/mongo-express/actions/workflows/standard-ci.yml)

Web-based MongoDB admin interface written with Node.js, Express and Bootstrap3

## Features

- Connect to multiple databases
- View/add/delete databases
- View/add/rename/delete collections
- View/add/update/delete documents
- Preview audio/video/image assets inline in collection view
- Nested and/or large objects are collapsible for easy overview
- Async on-demand loading of big document properties (>100KB default) to keep collection view fast
- GridFS support - add/get/delete incredibly large files
- Use BSON data types in documents
- Mobile / Responsive - Bootstrap 3 works passably on small screens when you're in a bind
- Connect and authenticate to individual databases
- Authenticate as admin to view all databases
- Database blacklist/whitelist
- Custom CA and CA validation disabling
- Supports replica sets

## Screenshots

| Home Page                                                                      | Database View                                                                                    | Collection View                                                                       | Editing A Document                                                     |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <img src="http://i.imgur.com/XiYhblA.png" title="Home Page showing databases"> | <img src="http://i.imgur.com/XWcIgY1.png" title="Viewing collections & buckets in a database" /> | <img src="https://imgur.com/UmGSr3x.png" title="Viewing documents in a collection" /> | <img src="https://imgur.com/lL38abn.png" title="Editing a document" /> |

These screenshots are from version 0.30.40
View album for more screenshots: (server status, database views etc..)
[https://imgur.com/a/9vHsF](https://imgur.com/a/9vHsF)

## Development

For test or develop with the latest version you can install using this git repository:

    npm i mongo-express@git+https://github.com/mongo-express/mongo-express.git#master

Copy config.default.js to config.js and edit the default property to fit your local environment

**Run the development build using:**

    npm run start-dev

## Usage (npm / CLI)

_mongo-express_ requires Node.js v4 or higher.

**To install:**

    npm install -g mongo-express

Or if you want to install a non-global copy:

    npm install mongo-express

By default `config.default.js` is used where the basic access authentication is `admin`:`pass`. This is obviously not safe, and there are warnings in the console.

**To configure:**

Copy `YOUR_PATH/node_modules/mongo-express/config.default.js` into a new file called `YOUR_PATH/node_modules/mongo-express/config.js`.

_Note:_ YOUR_PATH will depend on your current OS user and system configuration. You can see it in the output text shown after executing npm install.

Fill in your MongoDB connection details and any other options you want to change in `config.js`.

**You will also need to create a .env file with the variables for your cookie and session secrets, these are just default values**

    ME_CONFIG_SITE_COOKIESECRET: 'cookiesecret',
    ME_CONFIG_SITE_SESSIONSECRET: 'sessionsecret',

**To run:**

    cd YOUR_PATH/node_modules/mongo-express/ && node app.js

If you installed it globally, you can immediately start mongo-express like this:

    mongo-express --url mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017

Or if you want to use it as an administrator:

    mongo-express --admin --url mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017

For help on configuration options:

    mongo-express --help

## Usage (Express 4 middleware)

**To mount as Express 4 middleware (see `node_modules/mongo-express/app.js`):**

    var mongo_express = require('mongo-express/lib/middleware')
    var mongo_express_config = require('./mongo_express_config')

    app.use('/mongo_express', mongo_express(mongo_express_config))

## Usage (Docker)

Make sure you have a running [MongoDB container](https://hub.docker.com/_/mongo/) on a Docker network (`--network some-network` below) with `--name` or `--network-alias` set to `mongo`. Alternatively, set connection string `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_URL` to the proper connection for your MongoDB container on your Docker network.

**Use [the Docker Hub image](https://hub.docker.com/_/mongo-express/):**

```console
$ docker run -it --rm -p 8081:8081 --network some-network mongo-express
```

**Build from source:**

Build an image from the project directory, then run the image.

```console
$ docker build -t mongo-express .
$ docker run -it --rm -p 8081:8081 --network some-network mongo-express
```

You can use the following [environment variables](https://docs.docker.com/reference/run/#env-environment-variables) to modify the container's configuration:

    Name                              | Default         | Description
    ----------------------------------|-----------------|------------
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_URL`           | `mongodb://admin:pass@localhost:27017/db?ssl=false`
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ENABLE_ADMIN`  | `false`         | Enable administrator access. Send strings: `"true"` or `"false"`.
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_AUTH_DATABASE` | `db`            | Database name (only needed if `ENABLE_ADMIN` is `"false"`).
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_AUTH_USERNAME` | `admin`         | Database username (only needed if `ENABLE_ADMIN` is `"false"`).
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_AUTH_PASSWORD` | `pass`          | Database password (only needed if `ENABLE_ADMIN` is `"false"`).
    `ME_CONFIG_SITE_BASEURL`          | `/`             | Set the express baseUrl to ease mounting at a subdirectory. Remember to include a leading and trailing slash.
    `ME_CONFIG_HEALTH_CHECK_PATH`     | `/status`       | Set the mongo express healthcheck path. Remember to add the forward slash at the start.
    `ME_CONFIG_SITE_COOKIESECRET`     | `cookiesecret`  | String used by [cookie-parser middleware](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cookie-parser) to sign cookies.
    `ME_CONFIG_SITE_SESSIONSECRET`    | `sessionsecret` | String used to sign the session ID cookie by [express-session middleware](https://www.npmjs.com/package/express-session).
    `ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH`             | `false`         | Enable Basic Authentication. Send strings: `"true"` or `"false"`.
    `ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_USERNAME`    | ``              | mongo-express web login name. Sending an empty string will disable basic authentication.
    `ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_PASSWORD`    | ``              | mongo-express web login password.
    `ME_CONFIG_REQUEST_SIZE`          | `100kb`         | Used to configure maximum mongo update payload size. CRUD operations above this size will fail due to restrictions in [body-parser](https://www.npmjs.com/package/body-parser).
    `ME_CONFIG_OPTIONS_EDITORTHEME`   | `rubyblue`      | Web editor color theme, [more here](http://codemirror.net/demo/theme.html).
    `ME_CONFIG_OPTIONS_READONLY`      | `false`         | if readOnly is true, components of writing are not visible.
    `ME_CONFIG_OPTIONS_FULLWIDTH_LAYOUT`    | `false`   | if set to true an alternative page layout is used utilizing full window width.
    `ME_CONFIG_OPTIONS_PERSIST_EDIT_MODE`   | `false`   | if set to true, remain on same page after clicked on Save button
    `ME_CONFIG_OPTIONS_NO_DELETE`      | `false`        | if noDelete is true, components of deleting are not visible.
    `ME_CONFIG_SITE_SSL_ENABLED`      | `false`         | Enable SSL.
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_SSLVALIDATE`   | `true`          | Validate mongod server certificate against CA
    `ME_CONFIG_SITE_SSL_CRT_PATH`     | ` `             | SSL certificate file.
    `ME_CONFIG_SITE_SSL_KEY_PATH`     | ` `             | SSL key file.
    `ME_CONFIG_SITE_GRIDFS_ENABLED`   | `false`         | Enable gridFS to manage uploaded files.
    `VCAP_APP_HOST`                   | `localhost`     | address that mongo-express will listen on for incoming connections.
    `PORT`                            | `8081`          | port that mongo-express will run on.
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_CA_FILE`       | ``              | CA certificate File
    `ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_USERNAME_FILE`     | ``        | File version of ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_USERNAME
    `ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_PASSWORD_FILE`     | ``        | File version of ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_PASSWORD
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ADMINUSERNAME_FILE`  | ``        | File version of ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ADMINUSERNAME
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ADMINPASSWORD_FILE`  | ``        | File version of ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ADMINPASSWORD
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_AUTH_USERNAME_FILE`  | ``        | File version of ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_AUTH_USERNAME
    `ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_AUTH_PASSWORD_FILE`  | ``        | File version of ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_AUTH_PASSWORD

**Example:**

    docker run -it --rm \
        --name mongo-express \
        --network web_default \
        -p 8081:8081 \
        -e ME_CONFIG_OPTIONS_EDITORTHEME="ambiance" \
        -e ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_USERNAME="" \
        -e ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_URL="mongodb://mongo:27017" \
        mongo-express

This example links to a container name typical of `docker-compose`, changes the editor's color theme, and disables basic authentication.

**To use:**

The default port exposed from the container is 8081, so visit `http://localhost:8081` or whatever URL/port you entered into your config (if running standalone) or whatever `config.site.baseUrl` (if mounting as a middleware).

## Usage (Bluemix)

**Deploy to Bluemix**

Doing manually:

- Git clone this repository
- Create a new or use already created [MongoDB experimental service](https://www.ng.bluemix.net/docs/#services/MongoDB/index.html#MongoDB)
- Change the file `manifest.yml` to fit your Bluemix app and service environment

Doing automatically:

- Click the button below to fork into IBM DevOps Services and deploy your own copy of this application on Bluemix

[![Deploy to Bluemix](https://bluemix.net/deploy/button.png)](https://bluemix.net/deploy?repository=https://github.com/mongo-express/mongo-express.git)

Then, take the following action to customize to your environment:

- Create your `config.js` file based on `config.default.js`
  - Check if it is necessary to change the `dbLabel` according to the MongoDB service created
  - Change the `basicAuth` properties, not to keep the default values

## Search

- _Simple_ search takes the user provided fields (`key` & `value`) and prepares a MongoDB find() object, with projection set to `{}` so returns all columns.
- _Advanced_ search passes the `find` and `projection` fields/objects straight into MongoDB `db.collection.find(query, projection)`. The `find` object is where your query happens, while the `projection` object determines which columns are returned.

See [MongoDB db.collection.find()](https://docs.mongodb.org/manual/reference/method/db.collection.find/) documentation for examples and exact usage.

## Planned features

Pull Requests are always welcome! <3

## Limitations

- Documents must have `document._id` property to be edited
- Binary BSON data type not tested

## E2E Testing

    We are currently trying to use Cypress, to open cypress use the command `cypress open`
    To instrument the code to allow the E2E coverage to run, please run this command: `yarn nyc instrument --compact=false lib instrumented`

## Not tested

- Binary/BinData

JSON documents are parsed through a javascript virtual machine, so **the web
interface can be used for executing malicious javascript on a server**.

**mongo-express should only be used privately for development purposes**.

## BSON Data Types

The following BSON data types are supported in the mongo-express document editor/viewer.

**Native Javascript Types**

Strings, numbers, lists, booleans, null, etc.

All numbers in Javascript are 64-bit floating points.

**ObjectID/ObjectId**

    ObjectId()

Creates a new Object ID type.

    ObjectId(id)

Use Object ID with the given 24-digit hexadecimal string.

**ISODate**

    ISODate()

Creates a new ISODate object with current time.

`new Date()` can also be used (note the `new` keyword there).

    ISODate(timestamp)

Uses ISODate object with the given timestamp.

**DBRef/Dbref**

    DBRef(collection, objectID)

    DBRef(collection, objectID, database)

Object ID is the ID string, not the ObjectId type.

The database value is optional.

**Timestamp**

    Timestamp()

Creates a new Timestamp object with a value of 0.

    Timestamp(time, ordinal)

Example: `Timestamp(ISODate(), 0)`.

See [http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/Timestamp+data+type](http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/Timestamp+data+type) for more info about the Timestamp data type.

**Code**

    Code(code)

Code can be a native Javascript function, or it can be a string.

Specifying a scope/context is not supported.

**MinKey**

    MinKey()

**MaxKey**

    MaxKey()

**Symbol**

    Symbol(string)

## Example Document

Here is an example of a document which can be read/edited in mongo-express (media truncated for legibility):

    {
      "_id": ObjectId(),
      "dates": {
        "date": ISODate("2012-05-14T16:20:09.314Z"),
        "new_date": ISODate(),
        "alternative": new Date()
      },
      "photo": "data:image/jpeg;base64,/9j/4...",
      "video": "data:video/webm;base64,GkXfo...",
      "audio": "data:audio/ogg;base64,T2dnUw...",
      "bool": true,
      "string": "hello world!",
      "list of numbers": [
        123,
        111e+87,
        4.4,
        -12345.765
      ],
      "reference": DBRef("collection", "4fb1299686a989240b000001"),
      "ts": Timestamp(ISODate(), 1),
      "minkey": MinKey(),
      "maxkey": MaxKey(),
      "func": Code(function() { alert('Hello World!') }),
      "symbol": Symbol("test")
    }

---

## License

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2012 Chun-hao Hu
Copyright (c) 2016-present Multiple Contributors

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
